README.md, before:

# Database ChatBot

A conversational interface for querying databases using natural language. This application allows users to ask questions about their database in plain English and receive understandable answers.

## Features

- Ask questions about your database in natural language
- View SQL queries generated from your questions
- See results in a well-formatted table
- Get explanations of query results in conversational language
- Support for multiple databases in phpMyAdmin
- Secure read-only access to databases

## Requirements

- Node.js (v14+)
- MySQL/MariaDB database
- OpenAI API key

## Setup

1. Clone this repository:
```
git clone <repository-url>
cd gptdb
```

2. Install dependencies:
```
npm install
```

3. Create a `.env` file from the example:
```
cp .env.example .env
```

4. Edit the `.env` file with your MySQL and OpenAI API credentials:
```
# Database Configuration
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_USER=your_database_user
DB_PASS=your_database_password
DB_NAME=your_database_name
DB_PORT=3306

# OpenAI API Configuration
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key

# Server Configuration
PORT=3000
NODE_ENV=development
```

5. Start the application:
```
npm start
```

For development with auto-restart:
```
npm run dev
```

6. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000`

## Usage

1. Select a specific database from the dropdown menu or leave it as "Auto-detect" to query across available databases
2. Type your question in natural language, for example:
   - "How many students were absent this month?"
   - "Show me the total sales by region for the last quarter"
   - "Which products have the highest inventory levels?"
   - "Show me students created within 10 days in bolsta" (specifying the database name helps with detection)
3. Press Enter or click the Send button
4. View the results and explanation

## Optimizing for Token Usage

If you encounter "out of token" errors with larger databases, use one of these approaches:

### 1. Cache Only Specific Databases

1. Go to Schema Management page (`/schema.html`) 
2. Under "Cache Specific Databases" section, select only the databases that you need
3. Click "Cache Selected Databases"

### 2. Create a Simplified Schema File

1. On the Schema Management page, click "Download Simplified Schema"
2. Edit the downloaded file to keep only the tables and columns you need
3. Upload the edited file using the "Upload Schema File" section

### 3. Mention the Database Name in Your Questions

When asking questions, include the database name to help the system focus only on that database:
- "How many students were absent in the **schooldb** this month?"
- "Show me recent customers in the **customerdb**"

### 4. Use Database Dropdown

Select a specific database from the dropdown before asking questions to limit schema information sent to the AI.

## Security

This application is designed with security in mind:

- Only read-only queries (SELECT, SHOW, DESCRIBE) are allowed
- SQL injection is prevented through proper parameter handling
- Database credentials are stored securely in environment variables
- The OpenAI API calls are structured to prevent prompt injection

## Architecture

- **Backend**: Node.js with Express
- **Database**: MySQL/MariaDB (via phpMyAdmin)
- **Natural Language Processing**: OpenAI GPT API
- **Frontend**: HTML/CSS/JavaScript with Bootstrap 5

## Limitations

- Currently only supports MySQL/MariaDB databases
- Limited to SELECT queries for security reasons
- Requires accurate database schema information for optimal results
- Complex or ambiguous questions might return imprecise results

## License

MIT

Commit message:

fixed the issue of relationship with tables now i have made a ui for creating schema for tables

README.md, after:

# Database ChatBot

A conversational interface for querying databases using natural language. This application allows users to ask questions about their database in plain English and receive understandable answers.

## Features

- Ask questions about your database in natural language
- View SQL queries generated from your questions
- See results in a well-formatted table
- Get explanations of query results in conversational language
- Support for multiple databases in phpMyAdmin
- Secure read-only access to databases

## Requirements

- Node.js (v14+)
- MySQL/MariaDB database
- OpenAI API key

## Setup

1. Clone this repository:
```
git clone <repository-url>
cd gptdb
```

2. Install dependencies:
```
npm install
```

3. Create a `.env` file from the example:
```
cp .env.example .env
```

4. Edit the `.env` file with your MySQL and OpenAI API credentials:
```
# Database Configuration
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_USER=your_database_user
DB_PASS=your_database_password
DB_NAME=your_database_name
DB_PORT=3306

# OpenAI API Configuration
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key

# Server Configuration
PORT=3000
NODE_ENV=development
```

5. Start the application:
```
npm start
```

For development with auto-restart:
```
npm run dev
```

6. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000`

## Usage

1. Select a specific database from the dropdown menu or leave it as "Auto-detect" to query across available databases
2. Type your question in natural language, for example:
   - "How many students were absent this month?"
   - "Show me the total sales by region for the last quarter"
   - "Which products have the highest inventory levels?"
   - "Show me students created within 10 days in bolsta" (specifying the database name helps with detection)
3. Press Enter or click the Send button
4. View the results and explanation

## Optimizing for Token Usage

If you encounter "out of token" errors with larger databases, use one of these approaches:

### 1. Cache Only Specific Databases

1. Go to Schema Management page (`/schema.html`) 
2. Under "Cache Specific Databases" section, select only the databases that you need
3. Click "Cache Selected Databases"

### 2. Define Table Relationships 

1. On the Schema Management page, go to the "Manage Relationships" tab
2. Define relationships between tables across different databases
3. All tables in a relationship will be preserved in the schema
4. When a specific database is selected, the complete schema for that database (including all tables and relationships) will be used

### 3. Create a Simplified Schema File

1. On the Schema Management page, click "Download Simplified Schema"
2. Edit the downloaded file to keep only the tables and columns you need
3. Upload the edited file using the "Upload Schema File" section

### 4. Mention the Database Name in Your Questions

When asking questions, include the database name to help the system focus only on that database:
- "How many students were absent in the **schooldb** this month?"
- "Show me recent customers in the **customerdb**"

### 5. Use Database Dropdown

Select a specific database from the dropdown before asking questions to limit schema information sent to the AI.

## Security

This application is designed with security in mind:

- Only read-only queries (SELECT, SHOW, DESCRIBE) are allowed
- SQL injection is prevented through proper parameter handling
- Database credentials are stored securely in environment variables
- The OpenAI API calls are structured to prevent prompt injection

## Architecture

- **Backend**: Node.js with Express
- **Database**: MySQL/MariaDB (via phpMyAdmin)
- **Natural Language Processing**: OpenAI GPT API
- **Frontend**: HTML/CSS/JavaScript with Bootstrap 5

## Limitations

- Currently only supports MySQL/MariaDB databases
- Limited to SELECT queries for security reasons
- Requires accurate database schema information for optimal results
- Complex or ambiguous questions might return imprecise results

## License

MIT
